---
title: Session 8
date: 2020-08-25
categories: [Sessions]
tags: []     # TAG names should always be lowercase
author: Richard Stock
---

### Curriculum Update: Design a Web Application
---

We want to line up closely with way JP prefers to approach development.  Goal is getting product in user’s hands as fast as possible.  Ability to go “top down” (using a tool chain on UI side - high marketability while capitalizing on Mo's experience with backend).

**New Goal: is to develop a web application, in approx 1-3 weeks.**  
- Mid September start.  Put thought into over the next couple weeks - optimally - come up with a small app (web app) that you’d like to build. 
- Use Invision or Balsamic - to put together high level wire frames - and start from there.   (link to wire frames on my website).   We bite off as much as we can.  Mockups (similar to sketching on paper).  
- Will meet with JP/Mo for two 1 hour sessions per week.  Tues/Thurs 8:00 AM is best for JP.  
- Will be recorded sessions focusing on Javascript fundamentals.  We will go past the language/syntax into practical high level algorithms and data structures.  Look for practical ways on how to apply algorithms to software we are writing.  
- Write a nutrition app - using Google Sheets as backend so we can see it.  
- Clearly separate function from architecture - don’t get hung up on limitations of Google Sheets.  Don’t design around the tools you are currently using.  Step back to find the higher level abstractions so you can simplify and find the right tool/platform. Example: Grouping products within a product listing.  "Map reduce problem" is the high level abstraction.  
- Use a "Test first" approach. The structure of your code often reflects the organizational structure.  If a messy code base, it’s often a messy org, all the way up to upper management.  

Mo:  Just go.  Just start, that’s the best way, sometimes the hardest part.

JP:  get us set up with "Jere-Ticket?" with PR’s etc. 

We will use Shape Up Process from 37 signals - 6 week cycle - betting table - things get cut - have to actively fight for features that get voted up. 

Start reading this book:
https://basecamp.com/shapeup/webbook

It's a very good process:  JP has done Lean, have done Agile, but is now waiting for the process that will replace Shape Up (never going to go back to those Lean or Agile).

**Next Steps:**

- This will be my product. Repo should be owned by Richard, because it’s my Intellectual Property.  Do it under my GitHub account.  They will fork to my repo (Mo/JP), and do PR’s there.  
- Do wire frames.
- JP can commit realistically Tues/Thurs 8:00 - 9:00 am.  If we get into a rhythm, there is a possibility JP could do more.
- Deliverable for JP, end of day we will get calendar invites for next meeting on next Tuesday and Thursday next week.  
- We will do Bootstrapping (logistical) as the main agenda for next meeting. 
- Recurring meetings starting on 17th.  Until then, ad hoc.  So we can start doing PR’s.  
- Iron sharpens iron.  Doing things out in open is the best way to do things, no question marks, accountability. 
- Mo doesn’t know JS and React as well as JP.  Mo wants to be accountable to Richard.  In the event that JP can’t show up, he wants to be able to jump in and teach/lead.  Starting 17th - formal curriculum starts - JP drives sessions focusing on focusing on pure JS language fundamentals and a little bit of functional elements very lightly. Browser Dom/CS isn’t part of scope.  
- If there’s a week JP can’t make it, then Mo can do it.  Regular high level design at that point using JS as a target language.   
- Once through fundamentals - then let’s build the product in collaboration.  
- Mo will be peer.  When JP needs, he will pass teacher hat to Mo.
- From a pure business sense:  Reality is that we are betting on eachother. For me to eclipse my teachers in a few years is actually a win/win.  Truly.  If I go on to make millions - then they win also. 

**Afternoon discussion with JP notes:**

- killer apps meet a need that YOU personally have.  
- user interface design - always thinking in terms of for one particular screen, what are the different visual states that this screen could be in.  Forget interactions and mechanics at the beginning.  For example:

	> State 2: enter username
	> State 3: enter password
	> State 4: submit button enabled 

- How the screen gets into the states is interaction mechanics.  Treat your visuals as independent states. Once we identify the different states, then we can get them running with interactions, then have user identify if it looks good, then we work on logic after of how to make it work
- Goal is to be a solid software engineer no matter where the code is written, following solid design principles.   
- Focus on user experience --> minimum amount of input required
- breaking problems down into sub problems and dealing with them separately before bringing them together
- Purpose of starting with wire frame --> 
    scrolling set of food images as a carousel
    simplicity - 2 options - gain / loose weight
    goal is getting out of UI as soon as possible
- You will introduce future features: ex: meal enhancements, etc - but later in the process.
- The process of simplifying a user interface - will automatically force me to simplify my calculations
- DAta structure first 
- Once we get down to the calculations, 
- Example:  Yahoo - login mechanism - users were getting invalid username and password error messages even if they entered their correct user/pass - right after they signed up for Yahoo.  It was a website update timing issue - their account took a few seconds to be initialized.  Yahoo decided that for the small percentage of people who try logging in right away, those people would just try again, and by the 2nd time, the account would be initialized and they would get in (and likely assume they made a typo).  This is an example of where the "top down" (UI to backend) approach can save time - the problems you may think you will have to solve on the backend may never even have to be solved, or they are massively simplified by the UI design. 
- Could consider using Kickstarter - You're only as good as your next idea - don't live in fear of someone ripping off your last idea.
- Goal is becoming a Product company - engage a 3rd party to deal with user requests and support - so I'm not overwhelmed.


### Libraries and Package Managers
---

Object Oriented Programming - catalogue / arsenal of design tools that i can use for several projects.

JP / Mo will help me build a core library.  There are a lot of open source libraries online.  Environment dictates library - ex:  Mozilla dictates browser side library so you have to use their API for Javascript. 

Utility libraries - typically open source.  

I might write my own utility libraries - and research and find cool open source utility library.

React is a library that JP uses.

Usually if building an app, you will be starting with someone else’s toolchain (ex:  Ruby on Rails).  Their documentation is very good.  They also have very good security that takes care of things before you know about them.

JP builds from scratch - leverages libraries only when he needs.

Package management systems.

 - package versioning - have to identify changes between versions - authors must write good documentation so devs don’t introduce breaking changes to their code base via a “patch”.  Patches shouldn’t affect anyone.  Breaking changes shouldn’t break anything but have potential.

Semantic commit messages - we need to learn how to do this - requires thought.  Structure is key for your commit messages.  

Using own libraries - Pragmatic programmers adopt libraries.  However to grow a skill set, it would be very beneficial to build your own library.  This builds depth of skillset.  Producer vs consumer.  Jimmy Nelson - applied DDD.  Use the tool knowing you can get the same result without it.  There’s a gap between using a tool and using it intelligently.  Then A) you know how to use the tool, and B) You’re not hampered by deficiencies in the code moving forward.

### Shortcuts can Rob Us of our Creative Development
---

It's usually not fun spending hours on Google and Stack overflow, copy & pasting code.  80% of people who use this style don’t enjoy this method.  God hasn’t designed us to work this way.  He’s designed us to take pride in our craftsmanship.

This process will be for First month - feel the pain of the struggle, not to use the internet as a quick fix.  You are cheating your brain’s development in the area of creativity if you do this.  You would mess up the foundation, or build it upon bad ground.   Struggle produces character and skill.   

Mo:  There are many ways to feel confident in coding too, there’s no better or worse method, or us vs them.

JP:  Agreed. The deeper reason why I don’t encourage the Stack Overflow road, is NOT that it isn’t effective - most problems that we encounter on a day to day basis have already been solved, unless we are doing machine coding or some other cutting edge space where novel problems are being generated every day.  

God’s word says, “Enjoy the work of your hands as a gift.”  The devs that do Stack Overflow a hundred percent of the time, are usually not excited and finding joy in what they do.  If they are having a blast though, then that’s fine.  But most deep down feel “I don’t know what I’m doing, I’m just copy pasting.  I’m just making it by.”

### Be Customer / User focused
---

My focus should always be delivering value to the user, by any means possible.  

Mo:  gets joy when the product he created is valuable and great tool for users.  While also having fun doing it.  

JP: It's an amazing gift and blessing to have work throughout the COVID season completely untouched.  In fact, more work came out of it.  We can’t take it for granted.  By-product of industry we chose to get into, it's an incredible industry.


### Encouragement for me
---

What i’ve been able to do, creating spreadsheets for clients with JS code - event though it may be hobbled together, it demonstrates independent motivation to learn and adapt.  JP has  a high degree of confidence that if dropped on a project right now, I could Stack Overflow / Google my way into a solution that is usable and employable.   The bar to entry into the field (for the 80% doing "line of business style development") is pretty low - you can do a lot with Stack Overflow / Google and a little bit of persistence.  The question isn’t “can I build stuff”.  That question is answered.  It’s now about going beyond that.  

God’s word says people perish for lack of vision.  

Skill is a relative thing.  Completely self defeating to compare your skill to others - I shold be competing to defeat future me, not others.   It’s not about where you are today, it’s about being the best right now that you have the God given ability to be.  And be content in that.  Learn how to be content.  You have to fight for your contentment.  Don’t assume it’s just going to come. 

