---
title: rwx 9
date: 2020-08-14
categories: [rwx]
tags: [git]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
author: Richard Stock
---

### August 14, 2020
---

Yeah no problem!

I had an interesting time today working on my wiki, I created a few wiki pages as markdown files, but then I was having issues with Git and pushing the pages to GitLab correctly.

So I ended up using `git reset —hard <hash>` to go back to the start of the project (first commit hash), not realizing it would delete all my wiki pages in the local repo.  After a small freak out and some research I was able to get them back using a command `git fsck --lost-found` to find the “dangling” branch (most recent commit) and merge it.   I then copied all the recovered files to a new folder, deleted the old local Git repo, cloned the wiki from GitLab, moved the files back in to the new clone, and then used git add, commit, push origin master to get a couple pages on GitLab.

After all that excitement I read about 3 chapters of the Pragmatic Thinking & Learning book which was surprisingly insightful and a lot of new concepts I’ve never heard of before! Super useful.

I took notes but instead of putting here, I’ll get those notes into the wiki soon.  I’ll resume Monday with communications.  Have a good weekend!

Richard 

> Haha!
>
> It's good to be freaked out. Remember `git reflog` is your friend. `git` keeps each of the commits even when you don't have a branch currently pointing to it. Beware that if you run `git gc` this will trigger the garbage collector and that might drop any dangling commits that aren't tracked by any branches. I'm glad that you were able to have a mini freakout and recover from it.