---
title: rwx 2
date: 2020-08-05
categories: [rwx]
tags: [git]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
author: Richard Stock
---

### August 5, 2020
---

***Read***:  Pro Git Book:  Completed 1.4 thru 2.2.

***Write***:  

- Running Git from the command prompt enables all the features, where running from a GUI doesn’t necessarily.
- Git can be installed on any OS using different methods.
- You can configure Git using the “git config --global” command, and view your custom configurations with “git config --list” command.  For more info view “man git config”.
- To get help, use “git help <verb>”, and to see list of options use “git <verb> -h”
- You can obtain a Git repository on your local machine from a local directory, or clone one from a remote location.
- To place a directory under Git’s control, first navigate to that directory and then type “git init”, which creates a new subdirectory named “.git” that contains all of the necessary repository files.  Nothing is tracked at this point yet.
- To start contributing to an existing project, you need to first clone it using “git clone <url>”.  This creates a working .git directory inside the newly cloned directory (which has the name of whatever string is to the right of the last slash of the url).  The whole project is pushed to your local machine and is ready to be worked on or used (and are by default classified as “tracked / unmodified”).
- Once you have made enough changes to the code that you reach a state that you want to record (commit a snapshot), you can then stage your changes by using the “git add” command.  Note if you modify a file after running this command, those modifications will not be committed unless you run another “git add” command.  Note that “git add” is also how you start tracking an untracked file. 
- Once your staging is set up properly, you can run the “git commit” command with a “-m” to add a commit message for the other devs to read describing the change.  Also, you can skip the staging (git add) by adding “-a” to this command, however be careful because it will include all changed files to the commit.
- The “git status” command allows you to view which files are in which state (modified or staged), in order for you to prepare for a proper commit.  It tells you which branch you are on.  Adding the “-s” gives you the short status.
- You can use “.gitignore” to ignore certain files such as log or temp files.
- “Git diff” allows you to see exactly what lines of code have been modified.
- “Git rm” removes a file from being tracked, you have to then run git commit to remove from working directory.  You can remove a file from the staging area using “--cached” option.
- “Git mv” is for renaming a file.

***Execute***:  

- Installed Ubuntu 20.04 LTS (chose minimal version instead of normal, so more lightweight) onto my PC via a USB (using Rufus software).  Completely wiped out Windows 10 (good riddance). 
- Installed Ubuntu software apps (Slack, Zoom, VS Code, Chromium, Vim, LivePatch).
- Starting learning how to use the Terminal (created a .js file and edited with Vim, viewed help and man pages, practiced directory commands - ls,cd,pwd, etc).
- Installed GIT from the Linux terminal (“sudo apt install git-all”).

> This is fantastic! Wow, it looks like you're making a lot of progress.
>
> There are a couple of things that I would like to highlight:
>
> `man git config` is an essential tool. `man <program>` will serve you well and save you from having to context switch into a browser or using your search engine to find an answer. Learning to use the resources available to you from your shell is a critical skill that I think many tend to neglect.
>
> Second highlight is, `git config --global` will modify a configuration file in your $HOME aka ~/ directory. If you take a peek you should be able to run `cat ~/.gitconfig` to see the content of the config file as you make changes to it via the `git config --global` command. There is also a `.git/config` file located in the local repository. So you can override the global settings with project specific settings. This pattern of storing your global configuration in your $HOME directory and allowing an override by looking for a file in your current working directory is common to many *nix based tools.
>
> I'm learning so much from reading your notes. Thank you!
>
> mo