---
title: rwx 5
date: 2020-08-10
categories: [rwx]
tags: [git]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
author: Richard Stock
---

### August 10, 2020
---
Hi Mo,

Hope you had a good weekend.  below is today's rwx.

***Read***:  Pro Git Book:  Completed 2.3 thru 2.5.

***Write***:  

2.3 
- Viewing Commit History:  `git log`:  view all commits in the repository.  By default, lists in reverse chronological order (most recent first). 
- There are a huge number of options with the git log command.  Useful ones:  `- 2` would list only the last two commits.  `-p` shows the difference introduced to the commit.  
- `git log -- pretty`: changes the log output to other formats.  For example: `git log --pretty=format:"%h - %an, %ar : %s"` would output `ca82a6d - Scott Chacon, 6 years ago : Change version number` (see Section 2.3 for more format options).
- `git log --graph`: displays the tree/branches in ASCII graph format. 
- There is a difference is between *author* and *committer*. The author is the person who originally wrote the work, whereas the committer is the person who last applied the work.
- `git log --since` and `--until` are handy to limit the log output.
- `git log -S` shows only the commits that match a certain string after the `-S` command.
- `git log --no-merges` eliminates merge commits which typically are not very informative.

2.4
- Undoing Things:  there are a few basic tools for undoing changes, however you can’t always undo an undo (one of the few areas of Git where you might loose work if you do it wrong).  
A common undo is when you commit too early and forget to add some files, or you mess up your commit message.  If you want to redo that commit, make the additional changes you forgot, stage them, and commit again using the `git commit --amend` command.  This command actually replacing the entire previous commit with the new improved commit (it’s as if the previous commit never happened, and it won’t show up in the repo history).
- Unstaging a staged file:  `git reset HEAD <filename>` will unstage the file.  
- Unmodifying a modified file:  `git checkout -- <filename>` will unmodify the file.  *Note this is a dangerous command.* Any local changes you made to that file are gone — Git just replaced that file with the most recently-committed version. Don’t ever use this command unless you absolutely know that you don’t want those unsaved local changes.

2.5  
- Working with Remotes:  To be able to collaborate on any Git project, you need to know how to manage your remote repositories. Remote repositories are versions of your project that are hosted on the Internet or network somewhere.  Collaborating with others involves managing these remote repositories and pushing and pulling data to and from them when you need to share work.  Managing remote repositories includes knowing how to add remote repositories, remove remotes that are no longer valid, manage various remote branches and define them as being tracked or not, and more.
- To see which remotes you have, run the “git remote” command.  Using “-v” option shows you the URL’s that you will need to fetch/push.
- You can pull from other users, however to push you need permission.
- Remotes use a variety of protocols.
- To add a new remote:
    - Implicitly:  use `git clone` command (with options)
    - Explicitly:  use `git remote add`, for example `remote add pb https://github.com/paulboone/ticgit`.  `pb` is the short name for the repo, so you don’t have to type the whole URL.
- To fetch/pull from a remote:
    - Use `git fetch <remote>`.  Note that the git fetch command only downloads the data to your local repository — it doesn’t automatically merge it with any of your work or modify what you’re currently working on. You have to merge it manually into your work when you’re ready.
    - If your current branch is set up to track a remote branch (see Git Branching for more information), you can use the `git pull` command to automatically fetch and then merge that remote branch into your current branch.
- To push to a remote:
    - Use `git push <remote> <branch>`.  If you want to push your master branch to your origin server (cloning generally sets up both of those names for you automatically), then you can push any commits you’ve done back up to the server using `git push origin master` (note: This command works only if you cloned from a server to which you have write access and if nobody has pushed in the meantime. If you and someone else clone at the same time and they push upstream and then you push upstream, your push will rightly be rejected. You’ll have to fetch their work first and incorporate it into yours before you’ll be allowed to push).
- Inspecting a remote:
    - If you want to see more information about a particular remote, you can use the `git remote show <remote>` command.
- Renaming and removing remotes:
    - You can run `git remote rename <current short name> <new short name>` to change a remote’s shortname.
- If you want to remove a remote for some reason — you’ve moved the server or are no longer using a particular mirror, or perhaps a contributor isn’t contributing anymore — you can use `git remote remove <remote>`.


***Execute***: None

> Hi Richard,
> 
> I had a good weekend. Thank you for asking. I apologize for my delayed response to this.
> 
> I love reading the summary of your notes. It is unbelievable to me how quickly you're absorbing this information.
> Please let me know if you're having fun.
> 
> I would like to make it clear that I don't expect you to read the entire Pro Git book, but if you're having fun then keep going.
>
> For the first week, I have had you writing the "r" section of "rwx" in email format. This week, I would like to start to transition to writing these summaries using [markdown](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax).
>
> You may or may not know this but I have been exposing you to markdown from the very beginning. Now, I think it would be beneficial to get a little more explicit.
>
> To exercise your Markdown skills I would like you to consider setting up a Wiki using the instructions here:
>
> [GitLab Wiki](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/wiki/)
>
> Feel free to create a project under the `programming_club` [namespace](https://gitlab.com/programming_club) or wherever you prefer:
>
> My suggestion to you is to get comfortable doing things publicly and in the open. You will make mistakes and it might be uncomfortable but this will aid you by:
> - helping you to build your profile of work
> - help you to get used to receiving critical feedback and peer review.
>
> I would like to propose that we move the daily email format of your notes to moving them to a Wiki. I'm open to other suggestions or ideas as well.
>
>WDYT?
>
> mo
