---
title: Programming Club S1:E1
date: 2020-07-28
categories: [Programming Club]
tags: []     # TAG names should always be lowercase
author: Richard Stock
---

### July 28, 2020 
---
*(watched video @ Starbucks)*

<iframe width="800" height="450" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/oFArZXJ65RI?&cc_load_policy=1&start=1" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<br/>

### Session Goal 

To create a baseline of understanding.  Using C, as many languages are derived from C. 

### Main Topics 

- What is coding?
- data types
- Variables
- Statements/Expressions
- Looping

### Basics

- Need a Workbench - set of tools - Mo uses bash shell.  Mac and Unix comes with these tools built in.  Mo uses Vim as an editor.
- All code is converted into machine language.   When you choose to write a book, you have to choose a language.  Same for coding.  
- Processors have a language - Mac’s run Intel processors which run an architecture called X86 or AMD, so if you want to interact with the processor, you have to give it instructions in the language that it speaks (1’s and 0’s).  
- In order to convert a high level coding language such as C into X86, you have to use a compiler tool, the most common is “GCC” for “C” language (Ginu compiler collection).  GCC created an executable file called “a.out” which can be run by the operating system.
- In programming, you very rarely build code from scratch, you build upon other people’s libraries and code. 
- There are quite a few layers of translation between high level languages and machine code.  Different computers will translate high level code into different machine code depending on the processor it’s running and the OS.  Windows 32 bit processor will have a different set of 0’s and 1’s than a Mac OS.
- There isn’t a language which is the best language, they all have unique characteristics which make them powerful.
- In a browser (Chrome, Firefox) - you can open the dev tools (developer tools).  You can use this as a development environment.  It is a REPL. **[`17:25`](https://youtu.be/oFArZXJ65RI?t=1045)**

***Question***:  when you changed the website’s background to pink, and the title to “Mo’s News”, did it do that only for you, or for the whole internet?

### Variables

- Static and dynamic 
- Data types:  numbers, strings, etc.
- Numbers:  int, long, double, float, etc
- Floats are decimals.  Longs are bigger integers than int.
- Strings:  character sets (ex: ASCII) convert alphabetic letters and symbols to numbers so the computer can compile.  Unicode 8 (UTF-8) is today’s standard.  ASCII could do 128 characters.

### Arrays

### Homework 

Play in your browser with code / data types and think of something to show Mo next week.