---
title: Conversation about Git
date: 2020-08-18
categories: [Conversations]
tags: [git]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
author: Richard Stock
---

### Aug 18, 2020
---

Do you have a better understanding of what (D)VCS's are for now?

> yes, conceptually - still need practice on the actual git commands but it is getting more comfortable each day

Yeah, not really so much about git itself, just more the higher level concept of why we even bother using a DVCS

> yes - as far as I understand the advantage of DVCS over CVCS is that they provide a clone/mirror of the entire history of a dev project on each machine so that it’s virtually indestructible, and everyone can access any point in the history if they need to go back for error checking or new design features..

Nice, sounds like you get it!

> yeah, i find git quite fascinating in terms of how it can manage so much simultaneous development on big projects
>
>I still am looking forward to finding out the strategy of how to use git once I actually know fully how to use it.  Specifically how several developers can work on the same code without stepping on eachother’s feet (merge conflicts, etc)

Well, git will be part of your future (career wise). There has not been a project I've worked on for the last 10 years that did not use it as the VCS.

Merge conflicts, and collisions, usually speak to deeper issues about work partitioning and poor design/communication. Less about the vcs itself (that being said, there are some terrible VCS's)

No VCS in the world will help you if you have a poorly designed system that does not open itself up well to asynchronous development by multiple developers.

> yeah a term i left out in my last comment was **“in real time”**.  Like on a given day, if 5 devs are working on a specific piece of code, no matter how good the VCS is at managing change i imagine there could be confusion.  But that’s more advanced stuff i’ll learn later i’m sure.  Just curious to find out how the teamwork works. I think i’m referring to what you just termed as “asynchronous development”

Let's just hit that right there. If 5 developers are working on the same section of code (literally same sets of lines, in the same file), they are going to have issues.

Part of effective design is building your system in such a way that logically separate pieces can be worked on completely independently by separate devs/teams

I worked on teams with 200+ developers contributing to a single codebase with no merge conflicts or collisions.

> ohh ok.  So project features are divided up and assigned to individual developers..

And it was because of how they did partitioning at both the design level, and physical code organization level
We'll get into the details over the next little while

> Makes sense