---
title: rwx 1
date: 2020-08-04
categories: [rwx]
tags: [git]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
author: Richard Stock
---

### August 4, 2020
---

Hi Mo,

Below is today's 'rwx':

***Read***:  Completed 1.1 thru 1.3.

***Write****
:  

- Git is a distributed version control system (VCS) developed in 2005 by the Linux community.  
- It seems the purpose of VCS's is to be able to revert to a previous state of a project, in the event that user error was introduced, or the dev team wishes to go "back in time" and change the design.
- VCS's have been around for a while, and evolved from local to centralized to distributed.  The major advantage of distributed is that each user's machine stores the entire repository (is a clone/mirror) making it impossible to loose or destroy data if one of the machines has an issue.
- Git has become the most widely used VCS due to its simplicity, speed, and ability to handle very large non linear projects.
- Git functions by taking snapshots of the entire project, taken every time that a change is made.  
- Git mostly operates locally, not remotely, so it's very fast and you can work even when offline (however I'm assuming this would only apply to short periods of time as other devs would be committing and could make your commits obsolete / irrelevant after enough time?).

> Integrating your code is easier if you do it more often. We'll discuss continuous integration as a way to deal with this. git also offers several merge strategies that work pretty good.

- Git typically only adds data and doesn't erase - making it harder to really screw things up.
- Git has hash's that uniquely identify each change a dev makes.
- There are 3 workflow states - Modified, Staged (indexed), and Committed.  You can be selective in what modifications are actually committed, hence the "staging area" - or you can skip the staging area.

*Note:  I've never blogged before or really journaled in the past.  However I've always been a fairly diligent note taker when
learning, so my writing style has been very "bullet point", distilling information that I view as essential for later
reference.  Wondering if you could let me know what writing style you'd like to see when I get my website blog set up?  I'm
always willing to learn and adapt to more of a "blog" style.*

> I'm to the point with my note taking as well. These notes are for you. So write for your audience. Through daily practice you will find your voice. Reading will also influence your preferred writing style.

> I like point form. It works for me.
 
***Execute***:  Currently working on installing Ubuntu 20.04 LTS onto my PC, & I will install Git as soon as I have that up and running.

> Well done! rwx: accomplished!